[Queues] Add rate limit tutorial (#16797)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/queues/tutorials/handle-rate-limits/index.mdx

<PackageManagers
	type="create"
	pkg="cloudflare@latest"
	args={"resend-rate-limit-queue"}
/>

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		one: "Hello World example",
		two: "Hello World Worker",
		three: "TypeScript",
		four: "Yes",
		five: "No",
	}}
/>

Then, move into your newly created directory:

```sh frame="none"
cd resend-rate-limit-queue
```

## 2. Set up a Queue

You need to create a Queue and a binding to your Worker. Run the following command to create a Queue named `rate-limit-queue`.

```sh title="Create a Queue"
npx wrangler queues create rate-limit-queue
```

```txt title="Output"
Creating queue rate-limit-queue.
Created queue rate-limit-queue.
```

### Add Queue bindings to wrangler.toml

Next, in your `wrangler.toml` file, add the following:

```toml
[[queues.producers]]
binding = "EMAIL_QUEUE"
queue = "rate-limit-queue"

[[queues.consumers]]
queue = "rate-limit-queue"
max_batch_size = 2
max_batch_timeout = 10
max_retries = 3
```

> Adding the `max_batch_size` of 2 to the consumer queue is important because the Resend API has a default rate limit of 2 requests per second. This batch size allows the queue to process the message in the batch size of 2. If the batch size is less than 2, the queue will wait for 10 seconds to collect the next message. If no more messages are available, the queue will process the message in the batch.

Reviewer: I'd recommend linking out to the batching docs here

interface Env {
	EMAIL_QUEUE: Queue<any>;
}
```

## 4. Send message to the queue

The application will send a message to the queue when this Worker receives a request. For simplicity, you will send the email address as a message to the queue. A new message will be sent to the queue with a delay of 1 second.

```ts title="src/index.ts"
export default {
	async fetch(req: Request, env: Env): Promise<Response> {
		try {
			await env.EMAIL_QUEUE.send(
				{ email: await req.text() },
				{ delaySeconds: 1 },
			);
			return new Response("Success!");
		} catch (e) {
			return new Response("Error!", { status: 500 });
		}
	},
};
```

This will accept requests to any subpath and forwards the request's body. It expects that the request body only contains an email. In production, you should check that the request was a `POST` request. Moreover, you should avoid sending such sensitive information (email) directly to the queue. Instead, you can send a message to the queue that contains a unique identifier for the user. Then, your consumer queue can use the unique identifier to look up the email address in a database and use that to send the email.

## 5. Process the messages in the queue

> After the message is sent to the queue, it will be processed by the consumer queue. The consumer queue will process the message and send the email. Add the `queue()` handler as shown below.

Reviewer: typo here: 
`After the message is sent to the queue, it will be processed by the consumer queue.`

you probably meant consumer Worker  :)

```ts title="src/index.ts" ins={1-3,17-28}
interface Message {
	email: string;
}

export default {
	async fetch(req: Request, env: Env): Promise<Response> {
		try {
			await env.EMAIL_QUEUE.send(
				{ email: await req.text() },
				{ delaySeconds: 1 },
			);
			return new Response("Success!");
		} catch (e) {
			return new Response("Error!", { status: 500 });
		}
	},
	async queue(batch: MessageBatch<Message>, env: Env): Promise<void> {
		for (const message of batch.messages) {
			try {
				console.log(message.body.email);

> 				// send email

Reviewer: This part confused me until I read what came next. I'd recommend adding more information in the paragraph above explaining that for now, we'll just print the message to the console, and that later in the tutorial we'll actually send the message.

			} catch (e) {
				console.error(e);
				message.retry({ delaySeconds: 5 });
			}
		}
	},
};
```

The above `queue()` handler will log the email address to the console and send the email. It will also retry the message if the email sending fails. The `delaySeconds` is set to 5 seconds to avoid sending the email too quickly.

To test the application, run the following command.

```sh title="Start the development server"
npm run dev
```

Use the following cURL command to send a request to the application.

```sh title="Test with a cURL request"
curl -X POST -d "test@example.com" http://localhost:8787/
```

On success, you should see the following output in the console.

```txt title="Output"
[wrangler:inf] POST / 200 OK (2ms)
QueueMessage {
  attempts: 1,
  body: { email: 'test@example.com' },
  timestamp: 2024-09-12T13:48:07.236Z,
  id: '72a25ff18dd441f5acb6086b9ce87c8c'
}
```

## 6. Set up Resend

To call the Resend API, you need to configure the Resend API key. Create a `.dev.vars` file in the root of your project and add the following:

```txt title=".dev.vars"
RESEND_API_KEY='your-resend-api-key'
```

Replace `your-resend-api-key` with your actual Resend API key.

> Next, update the `Env` interface in `worker-configuration.d.ts` to include the `RESEND_API_KEY` variable.

Reviewer 2: > **Issues:**
> 
> * Style Guide - (Terms-error) Use 'Worker' instead of 'worker'.
> 
> **Fix Explanation:**
> 
> The change from 'worker' to 'Worker' aligns with the style guide, assuming 'Worker' is a specific term or proper noun in this context. If 'Worker' is indeed a term that should be capitalized according to the style guide, then this change is appropriate. If not, the style guide may need to be updated to reflect the correct usage.

Argggh

---
updated: 2024-09-25
difficulty: Beginner
title: Handle rate limits of external APIs
summary: Example of how to use Queues to handle rate limits of external APIs.
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
products:
  - Workers
  - Queues
languages:
  - TypeScript
sidebar:
  order: 1002
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Cloudflare Queues - Queues & Rate Limits
description: Example of how to use Queues to handle rate limits of external APIs.
---

import { Render, PackageManagers } from "~/components";

This tutorial explains how to use Queues to handle rate limits of external APIs. In this tutorial, you will build an application that sends email notifications using [Resend](https://www.resend.com/), but you can use this pattern to handle rate limits of any external API.

> Resend is a service that allows you to send emails from your application. It provides a simple API that you can use to send emails. Resend has a default [rate limit](https://resend.com/docs/api-reference/introduction#rate-limit) of 2 requests per second. You will use Queues to handle the rate limit of Resend.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Resend is a service that allows you to send emails from your application via an API. Resend has a default [rate limit](https://resend.com/docs/api-reference/introduction#rate-limit) of two requests per second. You will use Queues to handle the rate limit of Resend.
```

## Prerequisites

<Render file="prereqs" product="workers" />

> 4. Sign up for Resend and generate an API key by following the instructions on the [Resend documentation](https://resend.com/docs/dashboard/api-keys/introduction).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Sign up for [Resend](https://resend.com/) and generate an API key by following the guide on the [Resend documentation](https://resend.com/docs/dashboard/api-keys/introduction).
```

> 
> ### Queues access

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Additionally, you will need access to Cloudflare Queues.

<Render file="enable-queues" />

> ## 1. Create new Workers application

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 1. Create a new Workers application
```

To get started, create a Worker application using the [`create-cloudflare` CLI](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/packages/create-cloudflare). Open a terminal window and run the following command:

<PackageManagers
	type="create"
	pkg="cloudflare@latest"
	args={"resend-rate-limit-queue"}
/>

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		one: "Hello World example",
		two: "Hello World Worker",
		three: "TypeScript",
		four: "Yes",
		five: "No",
	}}
/>

> Then, move into your newly created directory:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then, go to your newly created directory:
```

```sh frame="none"
cd resend-rate-limit-queue
```

## 2. Set up a Queue

> You need to create a Queue and a binding to your Worker. Run the following command to create a Queue named `rate-limit-queue`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You need to create a Queue and a binding to your Worker. Run the following command to create a Queue named `rate-limit-queue`:
```

```sh title="Create a Queue"
npx wrangler queues create rate-limit-queue
```

> ```txt title="Output"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```txt output
```

This will merge the output block up to the command, and make it uncopyable/grayed out: https://developers.cloudflare.com/style-guide/components/code/#output

<img width="757" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fd831e0c-807f-4b97-afc4-7376a477498b">

Author: Thanks for this!

Creating queue rate-limit-queue.
Created queue rate-limit-queue.
```

> ### Add Queue bindings to wrangler.toml

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Add Queue bindings to `wrangler.toml`
```

> Next, in your `wrangler.toml` file, add the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In your `wrangler.toml` file, add the following:
```

```toml
[[queues.producers]]
binding = "EMAIL_QUEUE"
queue = "rate-limit-queue"

[[queues.consumers]]
queue = "rate-limit-queue"
max_batch_size = 2
max_batch_timeout = 10
max_retries = 3
```

> Adding the `max_batch_size` of 2 to the consumer queue is important because the Resend API has a default rate limit of 2 requests per second. This batch size allows the queue to process the message in the batch size of 2. If the batch size is less than 2, the queue will wait for 10 seconds to collect the next message. If no more messages are available, the queue will process the message in the batch. For more information, refer to the [Batching, Retries and Delays documentation](/queues/configuration/batching-retries)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is important to include the `max_batch_size` of two to the consumer queue because the Resend API has a default rate limit of two requests per second. This batch size allows the queue to process the message in the batch size of two. If the batch size is less than two, the queue will wait for 10 seconds to collect the next message. If no more messages are available, the queue will process the message in the batch. For more information, refer to the [Batching, Retries and Delays documentation](/queues/configuration/batching-retries).
```

> Your final `wrangler.toml` file should look similar to the one below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your final `wrangler.toml` file should look similar to the one below:
```

> Your final `wrangler.toml` file should look similar to the one below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your final `wrangler.toml` file should look similar to the example below.
```

```toml title="wrangler.toml"
#:schema node_modules/wrangler/config-schema.json
name = "resend-rate-limit-queue"
main = "src/index.ts"
compatibility_date = "2024-09-09"
compatibility_flags = ["nodejs_compat"]

[[queues.producers]]
binding = "EMAIL_QUEUE"
queue = "rate-limit-queue"

[[queues.consumers]]
queue = "rate-limit-queue"
max_batch_size = 2
max_batch_timeout = 10
max_retries = 3
```

## 3. Add bindings to environment

> Add the bindings to the environment interface in `worker-configuration.d.ts`, so TypeScript correctly types the bindings. Type the queue as `Queue<any>`. The following step will show you how to change this type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Add the bindings to the environment interface in `worker-configuration.d.ts`, so TypeScript correctly types the bindings. Type the queue as `Queue<any>`. Refer to the following step for instructions on how to change this type.
```

```ts title="worker-configuration.d.ts"
interface Env {
	EMAIL_QUEUE: Queue<any>;
}
```

## 4. Send message to the queue

> The application will send a message to the queue when this Worker receives a request. For simplicity, you will send the email address as a message to the queue. A new message will be sent to the queue with a delay of 1 second.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The application will send a message to the queue when the Worker receives a request. For simplicity, you will send the email address as a message to the queue. A new message will be sent to the queue with a delay of one second.
```

```ts title="src/index.ts"
export default {
	async fetch(req: Request, env: Env): Promise<Response> {
		try {
			await env.EMAIL_QUEUE.send(
				{ email: await req.text() },
				{ delaySeconds: 1 },
			);
			return new Response("Success!");
		} catch (e) {
			return new Response("Error!", { status: 500 });
		}
	},
};
```

> This will accept requests to any subpath and forwards the request's body. It expects that the request body only contains an email. In production, you should check that the request was a `POST` request. Moreover, you should avoid sending such sensitive information (email) directly to the queue. Instead, you can send a message to the queue that contains a unique identifier for the user. Then, your consumer queue can use the unique identifier to look up the email address in a database and use that to send the email.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This will accept requests to any subpath and forwards the request's body. It expects the request body to contain only an email. In production, you should check that the request was a `POST` request. You should also avoid sending sensitive information (email) directly to the queue. Instead, you can send a message to the queue that contains a unique identifier for the user. Then, your consumer queue can use the unique identifier to look up the email address in a database and use that to send the email.
```

## 5. Process the messages in the queue

After the message is sent to the queue, it will be processed by the consumer Worker. The consumer Worker will process the message and send the email.

Since you have not configured Resend yet, you will log the message to the console. After you configure Resend, you will use it to send the email.

> Add the `queue()` handler as shown below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Add the `queue()` handler as shown below:
```

```ts title="src/index.ts" ins={1-3,17-28}
interface Message {
	email: string;
}

export default {
	async fetch(req: Request, env: Env): Promise<Response> {
		try {
			await env.EMAIL_QUEUE.send(
				{ email: await req.text() },
				{ delaySeconds: 1 },
			);
			return new Response("Success!");
		} catch (e) {
			return new Response("Error!", { status: 500 });
		}
	},
	async queue(batch: MessageBatch<Message>, env: Env): Promise<void> {
		for (const message of batch.messages) {
			try {
				console.log(message.body.email);
				// After configuring Resend, you can send email
				message.ack();
			} catch (e) {
				console.error(e);
				message.retry({ delaySeconds: 5 });
			}
		}
	},
};
```

> The above `queue()` handler will log the email address to the console and send the email. It will also retry the message if the email sending fails. The `delaySeconds` is set to 5 seconds to avoid sending the email too quickly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The above `queue()` handler will log the email address to the console and send the email. It will also retry the message if sending the email fails. The `delaySeconds` is set to five seconds to avoid sending the email too quickly.
```

> To test the application, run the following command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To test the application, run the following command:
```

```sh title="Start the development server"
npm run dev
```

> Use the following cURL command to send a request to the application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the following cURL command to send a request to the application:
```

```sh title="Test with a cURL request"
curl -X POST -d "test@example.com" http://localhost:8787/
```

> On success, you should see the following output in the console.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On success, you should see the following output in the console:
```

```txt title="Output"
[wrangler:inf] POST / 200 OK (2ms)
QueueMessage {
  attempts: 1,
  body: { email: 'test@example.com' },
  timestamp: 2024-09-12T13:48:07.236Z,
  id: '72a25ff18dd441f5acb6086b9ce87c8c'
}
```

## 6. Set up Resend

To call the Resend API, you need to configure the Resend API key. Create a `.dev.vars` file in the root of your project and add the following:

```txt title=".dev.vars"
RESEND_API_KEY='your-resend-api-key'
```

Replace `your-resend-api-key` with your actual Resend API key.

Next, update the `Env` interface in `worker-configuration.d.ts` to include the `RESEND_API_KEY` variable.

```ts title="worker-configuration.d.ts" ins={3}
interface Env {
	EMAIL_QUEUE: Queue<any>;
	RESEND_API_KEY: string;
}
```

> Lastly, install the [`resend` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/resend) using the following command

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Lastly, install the [`resend` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/resend) using the following command:
```

import { Resend } from "resend";

interface Message {
	email: string;
}

export default {
	async fetch(req: Request, env: Env): Promise<Response> {
		try {
			await env.EMAIL_QUEUE.send(
				{ email: await req.text() },
				{ delaySeconds: 1 },
			);
			return new Response("Success!");
		} catch (e) {
			return new Response("Error!", { status: 500 });
		}
	},
	async queue(batch: MessageBatch<Message>, env: Env): Promise<void> {
		// Initialize Resend
		const resend = new Resend(env.RESEND_API_KEY);
		for (const message of batch.messages) {
			try {
				console.log(message.body.email);
				// send email
				const sendEmail = await resend.emails.send({
					from: "onboarding@resend.dev",
					to: [message.body.email],
					subject: "Hello World",
					html: "<strong>Sending an email from Worker!</strong>",
				});

				// check if the email failed
				if (sendEmail.error) {
					console.error(sendEmail.error);
					message.retry({ delaySeconds: 5 });
				} else {
					// if success, ack the message
					message.ack();
				}
				message.ack();
			} catch (e) {
				console.error(e);
				message.retry({ delaySeconds: 5 });
			}
		}
	},
};
```

> The `queue()` handler will now send the email using the Resend API. It also checks if the email sending failed and retries the message if it did.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `queue()` handler will now send the email using the Resend API. It also checks if sending the email failed and will retry the message.
```

> The final script is included below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The final script is included below:
```

```ts title="src/index.ts"
import { Resend } from "resend";

interface Message {
	email: string;
}

export default {
	async fetch(req: Request, env: Env): Promise<Response> {
		try {
			await env.EMAIL_QUEUE.send(
				{ email: await req.text() },
				{ delaySeconds: 1 },
			);
			return new Response("Success!");
		} catch (e) {
			return new Response("Error!", { status: 500 });
		}
	},
	async queue(batch: MessageBatch<Message>, env: Env): Promise<void> {
		// Initialize Resend
		const resend = new Resend(env.RESEND_API_KEY);
		for (const message of batch.messages) {
			try {
				// send email
				const sendEmail = await resend.emails.send({
					from: "onboarding@resend.dev",
					to: [message.body.email],
					subject: "Hello World",
					html: "<strong>Sending an email from Worker!</strong>",
				});

				// check if the email failed
				if (sendEmail.error) {
					console.error(sendEmail.error);
					message.retry({ delaySeconds: 5 });
				} else {
					// if success, ack the message
					message.ack();
				}
			} catch (e) {
				console.error(e);
				message.retry({ delaySeconds: 5 });
			}
		}
	},
};
```

> To test the application, start the development server using the following command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To test the application, start the development server using the following command:
```

```sh title="Start the development server"
npm run dev
```

> Use the following cURL command to send a request to the application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the following cURL command to send a request to the application:
```

```sh title="Test with a cURL request"
curl -X POST -d "delivered@resend.dev" http://localhost:8787/
```

On the Resend dashboard, you should see that the email was sent to the provided email address.

## 8. Deploy your Worker

To deploy your Worker, run the following command:

```sh title="Deploy your Worker"
npx wrangler deploy
```

> Lastly, add the Resend API key using the following command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Lastly, add the Resend API key using the following command:
```
